Changelog for v2.143.0 (#3270)
vertexproject/synapse: CHANGELOG.rst

Synapse Changelog
*****************

v2.143.0 - TBD
==============

Model Changes
-------------
- Update to the ``crypto`` model.
  (`#3256 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3256>`_)

  Updated Types
  -------------

  ``hex``

>     The ``zeropad`` option has been changed from a ``bool`` to an ``int``.
>     It now indicates how many bytes to left pad a value with zeros (``0x00``).

Reviewer: This kinds of makes it sound like we prepend `zeropad` number of bytes instead of padding out to `zeropad` size.

```suggestion
    The ``zeropad`` option has been changed from a ``bool`` to an ``int``.
    It now indicates the size to which a value should be zero (``0x00``) padded.
```

Reviewer 2: `It may now be used to specify the zero extended length of the hex string.`

  Updated Properties
  ------------------

  ``cyrpto:509:cert``
    The form had the following properties updated on it:

    ``serial``
      The ``size`` value has been changed to ``zeropad`` to allow recording

>       certificates with serial numbers with less than 40 bytes.

Reviewer 2: This also allows the use of larger than 40 byte hex values to account for malformed certs

  (`#3269 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3269>`_)
- Fix a bug in ``synapse.tools.aha.enroll`` where a user with an
  ``telepath.yaml`` file containing an ``aha:servers`` key with a list of
  lists failed to enroll a local user.
  (`#3260 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3260>`_)
- Fix an issue where Storm functions using ``emit`` failed to cleanup their
  sub-runtimes.
  (`#3250 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3250>`_)
- Add verification that a Storm function call is being made on a callable
  object and raise a ``StormRuntimeError`` if the object cannot be called.
  Previously invalid calls could raise an ``TypeError``.
  (`#3243 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3243>`_)
- Fix the order of the Beholder ``cron:stop`` message firing when a Cron job
  is stopped.
  (`#3265 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3265>`_)

Improved Documentation
----------------------
- Add a section to the Storm reference for user defined functions in Storm.
  That can be found at :ref:`storm-adv-functions`.
  (`#3245 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3245>`_)

> - Update the devops docuemtnation to add a note about the Telepath ``aha://``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the devops documentation to add a note about the Telepath ``aha://``
```

Synapse Changelog
*****************

v2.143.0 - TBD
==============

Model Changes
-------------
- Update to the ``crypto`` model.
  (`#3256 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3256>`_)

  Updated Types
  -------------

  ``hex``
    The ``zeropad`` option has been changed from a ``bool`` to an ``int``.
    It may now be used to specify the zero extended length of the hex string.

  Updated Properties
  ------------------

>   ``cyrpto:509:cert``

Reviewer 3: "crypto" and should be x509

    The form had the following properties updated on it:

    ``serial``
      The ``size`` value has been changed to ``zeropad`` to zeropad values
      with less than 40 octets, and to allow storing large serial numbers from
      malformed certificates.

Features and Enhancements
-------------------------
- Add ``$lib.model.ext.getExtModel()`` and
  ``$lib.model.ext.addExtModel()`` Storm APIs to get all the extended model

>   definitions in a Cortex and to add extended extended model definitions to

Reviewer 3: extended extended

- Fix an issue where Storm functions using ``emit`` failed to cleanup their
  sub-runtimes.
  (`#3250 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3250>`_)
- Add verification that a Storm function call is being made on a callable
  object and raise a ``StormRuntimeError`` if the object cannot be called.
  Previously invalid calls could raise an ``TypeError``.
  (`#3243 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3243>`_)
- Fix the order of the Beholder ``cron:stop`` message firing when a Cron job
  is stopped.
  (`#3265 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3265>`_)

Improved Documentation
----------------------
- Add a section to the Storm reference for user defined functions in Storm.
  That can be found at :ref:`storm-adv-functions`.
  (`#3245 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3245>`_)
- Update the devops documentation to add a note about the Telepath ``aha://``
  protocol using a ``mirror=true`` parameter to connect to a service mirror
  instead of a leader.
  (`#3267 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3267>`_)
- Update the ``preboot.sh`` example script to account for Docker changes

>   introduced in ``2.133.0``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  introduced in ``v2.133.0``.
```

  definitions in a Cortex and to add extended extended model definitions to
  a Cortex in bulk.
  (`#3252 <https://github.com/vertexproject/synapse/pull/3252>`_)

> - Add ``inet:ipv5`` to the list of types identified with scrape APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add ``inet:ipv6`` to the list of types identified with scrape APIs.
```

Reviewer: Do you want to mention that this will also detect `inet:server`s with ipv6 addresses?
